A civic technology is one that aids civic society, where civic society, in this conception, is considered to be the commons mediating between commerce and government. There are a broad range of civic technology (or “civic tech” for short) projects, both commercial and charitable, from social networks such as Facebook [1] to election monitoring applications such as Ushahidi [2]. From the perspective of the UK, arguably one of the most well known (and, indeed, one of the most established) civic tech projects is They Work for You, which provides automated, accessible data about government. An overview of They Work for You will be presented, along with a discussion of its aims and values. The challenges faced by the site will also be addressed, before it is compared with another project, Wikipedia [3], with regard to taxonomoies of civc tech. Many civic tech projects, moreover, including They Work for You, encompass elements from the open data movement, and an overview of the movement will be presented directly below. 

It is suggested that there are two key tendencies within the broader open data movement. The first tendency aims to ensure the availability of open and com- mon data licences and standards, as exemplified by the work of Creative Com- mons [4] and the World Wide Web Consortium [5] (W3C), from a wide range of related organisations. The second tendency, and with particular regard to pol- itics, attempts to empower civic society with greater levels of knowledge, than would have been the case otherwise, in order to hold governments to account. A well known example of this tendency is Wikileaks [6]. 
From an American perspective one of the primary antecedents of the current open data movement is the Freedom of Information Act [7] (FOIA). Further information about the FOIA can be found within Appendix 1. From a socio- logical perspective, however, one of the reasons why FOIA requests are made might relate to Anthony Giddens’ conception of trust [8] (as a consequence of modernity). He suggests that organisational and technological advances mean that many aspects of daily life can not be fully understood (from an individual perspective) and must, instead, be taken on trust. A corollary might well be a desire to uncover (as far as possible) the truth beneath such trust. 

They Work for You is a civic technology that was founded by Tom Steinberg [9] in 2003. It provides information about political representatives, such as Members of Parliament (MPs) and Members of the Scottish Parliament (MSPs), across all four legislative assemblies in the UK. The site is data driven. That is, it provides an accessible user interface over data drawn, automatically, from secondary sources. Originally, the data shown within the site was scraped (using a WGET [10] based script) from the website of Hansard [11], which is the official record of all UK parliamentary debates. This led to a threat of legal action being taken against They Work for You by the government, because, at the time, no licence existed for the secondary use of Hansard data [12]. Whilst no prosecution took place, and whilst Tom Steinberg subsequently co-wrote a governmental review called The Power of Information [13], They Work for You no longer scrapes data from the Hansard site, at all. In fact, since the unveiling of the UK Government’s Open Data Licence [14] (2010), as overseen by Tim Berners Lee [15], They Work for You has drawn data directly from a government Application Programming Interface [16] (or API). 

Quoting directly from the They Work for You site, its aim is to “make it much easier for anyone to understand exactly what is going on in Parliament”. It is suggested that that aim has been most fully realised with regard to the following three aspects of the site’s implementation: (i) a front-end design that engenders accessibility; (ii) the curation of permanent URLs; and (iii) the provision of open source and freely available code. 

The screenshot within Figure 1 depicts the home page of the site, and promi- nently displayed within the home page is a search box, which, amongst other entry types, accepts postcode [17] values. When a user enters a postcode within the search box the site will subsequently display information about the MP as- sociated with the entered postcode. This clear and simple process is a good example of how the design of the site engenders accessibility, and the postcode based search may be especially useful for those users who do not know the name 

A second way in which the design of the site engenders accessibility can be seen from the screenshot within Figure 2. It depicts a terminal (or console) based text only browser, and it is displaying the information from the They Work for You site for the current UK Labour Party leader Jermey Corbyn [18]. Further information about text only browsing can be found within Appendix 2. 
Relatively few modern web sites fully support text only browsing, due to the inclusion of “Web 2.0” client side JavaScript [19]. However, text browsers are frequently the basis for text to speech browsing as used by those with disabilities, such as blindness [20]. As such, the fact that the site can be viewed via a text only browser is another demonstration of how its design engenders accessibility, and, ultimately, contributes to civil society. 

The second aspect of the implementation that enables the site to address its aims is the construction of permanent Uniform Resource Locators (URLs or web addresses). The screenshot within Figure 3 shows a summary page (from within the They Work for You) for an exchange between two MPs in the House of Commons. The exchange, itself, is published by They Work for You with a permanent and unique URL. The construction of such URLs therefore provides a means of sharing (across the web) uniquely referenced debates and interjections. 

The last aspect of the implementation of the site that enables it to address its aims is through the provision of open source, freely available code. To that end, the They Work for You site was redevloped into into a tool called Pombola. The screenshot within Figure 5 depicts information about Pombola showing that it is currently being used to provide information about the parliaments in both Kenya and South Africa. The Pombola code [21] is freely accessible from the GitHub [22] open source, online code repository, as be seen within Figure 6. Additional information about the development of Pombola and its hosting on GitHub can be found within Appendix 3. 

Taken toegther, They Work for You contributes to civil society through its im- plementation, whose key aspects are: (i) accessible design; (ii) the construction of permanent URLs; and (iii) open source and freely available code, which, additionally (and through Pombola) aids the development of civil society in secondary countries. 

One example of the dochotomy between an MPs voting patterns and their com- munity work concerns former University of Edinburgh student Ian Murray [23], who has been the MP for the Edinburgh South constituency since the UK 2010 general election. In 2015, Hearts of Midlothian football club, which was founded in XXX, and which is one of the two football professional clubs in Edinburgh, faced closure following the bankruptcy of its Russian owner, XXXX. As a con- sequence of his role as the local MP, Ian Murray was asked by supporters of the club to liase with the club’s official receivers. Over several years, his work led to a supports buyout the club, which is now the only football club in the Scottish (or, indeed, the English) Premier League to owned by the supporters. Ian Murray was subsequently interviewed [24] on the BBC Parliametrary chan- nel [25] with regard to a book he wrote, This is our story [26], describing his work helping the supporters of the football club. 
However, while Ian Murray’s involvement came about because of his role as an MP, it did not involve any specific questions in the commons. Consequently, is not described by the aggregated data on his They Work for You page, as can be seen from the screen shot within Figure 10. 

That being said, They Work for You are aware of the problem. Within the page associated with each MP, they have added a section called Numerology, as can be seen from the screen shot within Figure 11, which highlights some of the problem around a data driven and potentially data object perspective. 

In short, two of the challenges faced by They Work for You in fullfilling its aims towards civic society are: (i) how to promote an understanding of politics beyond those already interested in the subject, which is an issue that can be further addressed via web analytics; and (ii) they may face financial pressures, though as mentioned the overall picture of their finances may be more complex than it at first seems. 

Micah Sifry’s taxonomy offers a powerful means of discriminating between and identifying different types of civic technologies. However, it is suggested that it does not offer a comprehensive means of describing individual projects. For instance, the taxonomy does not (directly) incorporate the nuanced conception of group membership outlined by Noveck [28]. 
In addition, it is also worth noting that civic technologies may give rise to sec- ondary groups, which blur the distinction between end users and volunteers. Earlier iterations of the They Work for You site contained a ranking of MPs by 

(in one case) the number of written questions that the MPs has submitted to ministers. As the site become more well known, anecdotal evidence suggested that a small number of MPs had attempting to game the system by asking their advisors to make additional written requests (using the MPs name), and, thereby, improve their ranking on the site. This is an interesting circular exam- ple, where (if true) the behaviour of MPs was modified by the presence of the ranking indicator within the site. They Work for You have since removed such rankings. 

A second issue not directly addressed by Micah Sifry’s taxonomy concerns the technologies underlying a civic tech project. This issue is of particular impor- tance when such projects are undertaken in regions of the world without freely accessible web networks. In addition, and with particular regard to the open data movement in the UK, much of the UK government’s open data is hosted using Microsoft Azure cloud based systems. 

The diagram within Figure 13 represnts an alternative pipeline taxonomy of civic tech projects. On the far left hand side of the diagram can be found low level technologies, such as servers or the accessibility of open web networks: important when considering civic technologies in countries with restrictive web practicies. Moving horizontally forward to the right, the taxonomy addresses the design of individual civic tech projects, including the types of content that the contain. The taxonomy then encompasses the types of engagement such projects offer, with particular regard to group membership. Lastly, it finishes with a phrase coined by Tom Steinberg [9], namely, “civic power” [29]. That is, what types of “civic power” does a project engender. 

The pipeline taxonomy will be used to compare They Work for You with another civic technology, Wikipedia. Wikipedia was co-founded by Jimmy Wales [30] and Larry Sanger [31] in 2001 and has grown since then to become one of the world’s largest user maintained repositories of knowledge, with approximately 30 million registered volunteers (or Wikipedians) writing and maintaining articles. 

From a low level perspective, both They Work for You and Wikipedia are (or were) written in the open source PHP scripting language [32]. In terms of design and content, Wikipedia (as mentioned) is user maintained by a large group of volunteers. In contrast, the content within They Work for You is automatically generated from API data feeds. Moreover, the code handling and displaying the data represented by such feeds would appear to be maintained by a relatively small team of volunteers. Consequently, it is suggested that the different forms of content generation give rise to differing volunteer groups. Wikipedia volunteers may have a sense of ownerships or involvement with a relatively small part of the overall encyclopedia. That being said, they are directly concerned with what is displayed on the web. In contrast, the volunteers working for They Work for You may be considered to operate in a more detached manner. Lastly, whilst both They Work for You and Wikipedia promote the civic power of open knowledge, Wikipedia does so (directly) by enabling end users to become volunteers. 

Further analysis of They Work for You could be undertaken by extending the research methodology outlined by Richard Rogers within The Datafied Society. His work was concerned with examining the biases that result from personalisa- tion when conducting web search using major search engines. His methodology could be extended with regard to They Work for You to examine the relation- ship between personalisation and web searches for specific MPs’ pages on They Work for You. 
